Skhumbuzo Miya ANC Youth League president Julius Malema’s lawyer, Tumi Mokoena, is expected to address the media today about allegations surrounding Malema’s continued involvement with companies in Limpopo. Malema has been  in the news following reports that he remains an active director in  SGL Engineering Projects, which has won tenders to the value of R140 million  in Limpopo. Malema denied the allegations and accused a City Press journalist of forging his signature in one report that supported claims that he is indeed an active director of SGL. ANCYL  spokesman Floyd Shivambu said in a statement that  Malema is expected to “to clarify and put to context the veracity of all the statements made by him when he addressed the media on his alleged involvement in business activities”. The press conference will take place at the ANC’s head office at Chief Albert Luthuli House at 11am. When the news broke that Malema’s company was given tenders worth R140 million, he said he had deregistered from the company’s directorship after his election as the president of the ANCYL in 2008. On Sunday, City Press reported that documents in its possession from the Companies and Intellectual Properties Registration Organisation show that Malema holds 70% ownership of SGL. Malema then claimed that the journalist who had written the story had forged his signature. The news report carried a series of articles on the shoddy work done by SGL. City Press editor Ferrial Haffejee said Malema’s comments are defamatory and she will definitely be seeking legal advice. Yesterday Congress of South African Trade Unions spokesman Patrick Craven said the union will discuss the Malema  matter at its ongoing central executive committee meeting. “Malema is not a public representative, and has the right to own a business. But the City Press article reveals a different scandal — of a company which won a tender and then delivered bad service, leaving poor people high and dry.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.